When the Apostle Paul wrote to Christians and Ephesus about unity and the congregation,
he compared the Mosaic law to a wall that divided Jews and Gentiles.
Paul may have been alluding to the wall that surrounded the inner courtyards of the first
century temple in Jerusalem.
This low wall, called the Saurag, marked the boundary that Gentiles could not cross.
Only Jews were permitted to enter further into the temple area.
According to 1st century Jewish historian Josephus, the Saurag had signs in Greek and Latin
warning non-Jews not to go beyond it.
Apparently, those who did could face the death penalty.
Two such signs have been found, one in 1871 and another in 1935.
They both bear inscriptions warning foreigners not to enter.
On one occasion, Paul was marked in the temple because the Jews wrongfully accused him
of bringing Gentiles into the area fenced off by the Saurag.
The symbolic wall of the Mosaic law that divided Jews and Gentiles was abolished on the basis
of Christ's death.